*[prunable update]: An update that doesn't trigger change propagation through certain paths in the dependency graph because it modifies fields that are not dependencies of those downstream features. For example, updating audio upstream of a face recognition step allows pruning the face recognition branch since it only depends on video frames.

*[prunable updates]: An update that doesn't trigger change propagation through certain paths in the dependency graph because it modifies fields that are not dependencies of those downstream features. For example, updating audio upstream of a face recognition step allows pruning the face recognition branch since it only depends on video frames.

*[partial data update]: An update that doesn't trigger change propagation through certain paths in the dependency graph because it modifies fields that are not dependencies of those downstream features. For example, updating audio upstream of a face recognition step allows pruning the face recognition branch since it only depends on video frames.

*[partial data updates]: An update that doesn't trigger change propagation through certain paths in the dependency graph because it modifies fields that are not dependencies of those downstream features. For example, updating audio upstream of a face recognition step allows pruning the face recognition branch since it only depends on video frames.

*[prunable partial update]: An update that doesn't trigger change propagation through certain paths in the dependency graph because it modifies fields that are not dependencies of those downstream features. For example, updating audio upstream of a face recognition step allows pruning the face recognition branch since it only depends on video frames.

*[prunable partial updates]: An update that doesn't trigger change propagation through certain paths in the dependency graph because it modifies fields that are not dependencies of those downstream features. For example, updating audio upstream of a face recognition step allows pruning the face recognition branch since it only depends on video frames.

*[root feature]: a feature that does not have any upstream (parent) features

*[Polars versioning engine]: The **local versioning engine** is implemented with [`polars-hash`](https://github.com/ion-elgreco/polars-hash) and benefits from incredible [Polars](https://pola.rs/) performance and optimizations such as projection pruning, predicate pushdown, common subplan elimination, and others. It is considered the reference versioning engine implementation in Metaxy, and all the metadata stores are tested against it.

*[polars versioning engine]: The **local versioning engine** is implemented with [`polars-hash`](https://github.com/ion-elgreco/polars-hash) and benefits from incredible [Polars](https://pola.rs/) performance and optimizations such as projection pruning, predicate pushdown, common subplan elimination, and others. It is considered the reference versioning engine implementation in Metaxy, and all the metadata stores are tested against it.

*[feature discovery]: The process of automatically searching for feature definitions in the current environment. Learn more [here](/guide/lear/feature-discovery.md).

*[Metaxy configuration]: Metaxy can be configured via `metaxy.toml` (or `[tool.metaxy]` section in `pyproject.toml`) and environment variables. Learn more [here](/reference/configuration.md).

*[config discovery]: The process of automatically searching for Metaxy configuration. Learn more [here](/reference/configuration.md#config-discovery).

*[configuration discovery]: The process of automatically searching for Metaxy connfiguration. Learn more [here](/reference/configuration.md#config-discovery).

*[fields versions]: User-defined versions for logical components of a single feature sample. Learn more [here](/guide/learn/feature-definitions#fields).

*[field version]: User-defined versions for logical components of a single feature sample. Learn more [here](/guide/learn/feature-definitions#fields).

*[field versions]: User-defined versions for logical components of a single feature sample. Learn more [here](/guide/learn/feature-definitions#fields).

*[field-level dependencies]: Dependencies between specific fields of feature definitions. They directly affect how field versions are computed at both feature and sample levels. Learn more [here](/guide/learn/feature-definitions#field-level-dependencies).
